docs/dataset_prepare.md, before:

# Prepare datasets

It is recommended to symlink the dataset root to `$MONOCULAR-DEPTH-ESTIMATION-TOOLBOX/data`.
If your folder structure is different, you may need to change the corresponding paths in config files.

```none
monocular-depth-estimation-toolbox
├── depth
├── tools
├── configs
├── splits
├── data
│   ├── kitti
│   │   ├── input
│   │   │   ├── 2011_09_26
│   │   │   ├── 2011_09_28
│   │   │   ├── ...
│   │   │   ├── 2011_10_03
│   │   ├── gt_depth
│   │   │   ├── 2011_09_26_drive_0001_sync
│   │   │   ├── 2011_09_26_drive_0002_sync
│   │   │   ├── ...
│   │   │   ├── 2011_10_03_drive_0047_sync
|   |   ├── benchmark_test
│   │   │   ├── 0000000000.png
│   │   │   ├── 0000000001.png
│   │   │   ├── ...
│   │   │   ├── 0000000499.png
|   |   ├── benchmark_cam
│   │   │   ├── 0000000000.txt
│   │   │   ├── 0000000001.txt
│   │   │   ├── ...
│   │   │   ├── 0000000499.txt
│   │   ├── split_file.txt
│   ├── nyu
│   │   ├── basement_0001a
│   │   ├── basement_0001b
│   │   ├── ... (all scene names)
│   │   ├── split_file.txt
│   ├── SUNRGBD
│   │   ├── SUNRGBD
│   │   │   ├── kv1
│   │   │   ├── kv2
│   │   │   ├── realsense
│   │   │   ├── xtion
│   │   ├── split_file.txt
│   ├── cityscapes
│   │   ├── camera
│   │   │   ├── test
│   │   │   ├── train
│   │   │   ├── val
│   │   ├── disparity
│   │   │   ├── test
│   │   │   ├── train
│   │   │   ├── val
│   │   ├── leftImg8bit
│   │   │   ├── test
│   │   │   ├── train
│   │   │   ├── val
│   │   ├── split_file.txt
│   ├── cityscapesExtra
│   │   ├── camera
│   │   │   ├── train_extra
│   │   ├── disparity
│   │   │   ├── train_extra
│   │   ├── leftImg8bit
│   │   │   ├── train_extra
│   │   ├── split_file.txt
│   ├── custom_dataset
│   │   ├── train
│   │   │   ├── rgb
│   │   │   │   ├── 0.xxx
│   │   │   │   ├── 1.xxx
│   │   │   │   ├── 2.xxx
│   │   │   ├── depth
│   │   │   │   ├── 0.xxx
│   │   │   │   ├── 1.xxx
│   │   │   │   ├── 2.xxx
│   │   ├── val
│   │   │   ├── rgb
│   │   │   │   ├── 0.xxx
│   │   │   │   ├── 1.xxx
│   │   │   │   ├── 2.xxx
│   │   │   ├── depth
│   │   │   │   ├── 0.xxx
│   │   │   │   ├── 1.xxx
│   │   │   │   ├── 2.xxx
```

## **KITTI**

Download the official dataset from this [link](http://www.cvlibs.net/datasets/kitti/eval_depth.php?benchmark=depth_prediction), including the raw data (about 200G) and fine-grained ground-truth depth maps.

Then, unzip the files into data/kitti. Remember to organizing the directory structure following instructions (Only need a few cut operations).

Finally, copy split files (whose names are started with *kitti*) in splits folder into data/kitti. Here, I utilize eigen splits following other supervised methods.

Some methods may use the camera intrinsic parameters (*i.e.,* BTS), you need to download the [benchmark_cam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ktSDTUx9dDViBKoAeqTERTay1813xfUK/view?usp=sharing) consisting of camera intrinsic parameters of the benchmark test set.

## **NYU**

Following previous work, I utilize about 50K image-depth pairs as our training set and standard 652 images as the validation set. You can download the subset with the help of codes provided in [BTS](https://github.com/cleinc/bts/tree/master/pytorch).

```bash
git clone https://github.com/cleinc/bts.git
cd bts
python utils/download_from_gdrive.py 1AysroWpfISmm-yRFGBgFTrLy6FjQwvwP sync.zip
unzip sync.zip
```

Also, you can download it from following link: <https://drive.google.com/file/d/1AysroWpfISmm-yRFGBgFTrLy6FjQwvwP/view?usp=sharing>

Then, you need to download the standard test set from this [link](https://cs.nyu.edu/~silberman/datasets/nyu_depth_v2.html). (**Note**: The downloaded file will be unzipped to folder test and train. You need to cut the files in the test folder out to data/nyu, organizing the directory structure following the file trees provided on the top of this page.)

Finally, copy nyu_train.txt and nyu_test.txt from `splits/` folder to `data/nyu/`.

## **SUNRGBD**

The dataset could be downloaded from this [link](https://rgbd.cs.princeton.edu/). Copy SUNRGBD_val_splits.txt in splits into data/SUNRGBD.

## **Cityscapes and CityscapesExtra**

The data could be found [here](https://www.cityscapes-dataset.com/downloads/) after registration. Copy cityscapes_train.txt and cityscapes_train in splits to data/cityscapes. If using extra data, copy cityscapes_train_extra.txt to data/cityscapesExtra.

## **Custom Dataset**

We also provide a simple custom dataset class for users in `depth/datasets/custom.py`. Organize your data folder as our illustration. Note that instead of utilizing a split file to divide the train/val set, we directly classify data into train/val folder. A simple config file can be like:

```python
train=dict(
    type=dataset_type,
    pipeline=dict(...),
    data_root='data/custom_dataset',
    test_mode=False,
    min_depth=1e-3,
    max_depth=10,
    depth_scale=1)
```

As for the custom dataset, we do not implement the evaluation details. If you want to get a quantitative metric result, you need to implement the `pre_eval` and `evaluate` functions following the ones in KITTI or other datasets.

Commit message:

dataset_prepared: update nyu dataset preperation
Signed-off-by: Shengjiang Quan <qsj287068067@126.com>

docs/dataset_prepare.md, after:

# Prepare datasets

It is recommended to symlink the dataset root to `$MONOCULAR-DEPTH-ESTIMATION-TOOLBOX/data`.
If your folder structure is different, you may need to change the corresponding paths in config files.

```none
monocular-depth-estimation-toolbox
├── depth
├── tools
├── configs
├── splits
├── data
│   ├── kitti
│   │   ├── input
│   │   │   ├── 2011_09_26
│   │   │   ├── 2011_09_28
│   │   │   ├── ...
│   │   │   ├── 2011_10_03
│   │   ├── gt_depth
│   │   │   ├── 2011_09_26_drive_0001_sync
│   │   │   ├── 2011_09_26_drive_0002_sync
│   │   │   ├── ...
│   │   │   ├── 2011_10_03_drive_0047_sync
|   |   ├── benchmark_test
│   │   │   ├── 0000000000.png
│   │   │   ├── 0000000001.png
│   │   │   ├── ...
│   │   │   ├── 0000000499.png
|   |   ├── benchmark_cam
│   │   │   ├── 0000000000.txt
│   │   │   ├── 0000000001.txt
│   │   │   ├── ...
│   │   │   ├── 0000000499.txt
│   │   ├── split_file.txt
│   ├── nyu
│   │   ├── basement_0001a
│   │   ├── basement_0001b
│   │   ├── ... (all scene names)
│   │   ├── split_file.txt
│   ├── SUNRGBD
│   │   ├── SUNRGBD
│   │   │   ├── kv1
│   │   │   ├── kv2
│   │   │   ├── realsense
│   │   │   ├── xtion
│   │   ├── split_file.txt
│   ├── cityscapes
│   │   ├── camera
│   │   │   ├── test
│   │   │   ├── train
│   │   │   ├── val
│   │   ├── disparity
│   │   │   ├── test
│   │   │   ├── train
│   │   │   ├── val
│   │   ├── leftImg8bit
│   │   │   ├── test
│   │   │   ├── train
│   │   │   ├── val
│   │   ├── split_file.txt
│   ├── cityscapesExtra
│   │   ├── camera
│   │   │   ├── train_extra
│   │   ├── disparity
│   │   │   ├── train_extra
│   │   ├── leftImg8bit
│   │   │   ├── train_extra
│   │   ├── split_file.txt
│   ├── custom_dataset
│   │   ├── train
│   │   │   ├── rgb
│   │   │   │   ├── 0.xxx
│   │   │   │   ├── 1.xxx
│   │   │   │   ├── 2.xxx
│   │   │   ├── depth
│   │   │   │   ├── 0.xxx
│   │   │   │   ├── 1.xxx
│   │   │   │   ├── 2.xxx
│   │   ├── val
│   │   │   ├── rgb
│   │   │   │   ├── 0.xxx
│   │   │   │   ├── 1.xxx
│   │   │   │   ├── 2.xxx
│   │   │   ├── depth
│   │   │   │   ├── 0.xxx
│   │   │   │   ├── 1.xxx
│   │   │   │   ├── 2.xxx
```

## **KITTI**

Download the official dataset from this [link](http://www.cvlibs.net/datasets/kitti/eval_depth.php?benchmark=depth_prediction), including the raw data (about 200G) and fine-grained ground-truth depth maps.

Then, unzip the files into data/kitti. Remember to organizing the directory structure following instructions (Only need a few cut operations).

Finally, copy split files (whose names are started with *kitti*) in splits folder into data/kitti. Here, I utilize eigen splits following other supervised methods.

Some methods may use the camera intrinsic parameters (*i.e.,* BTS), you need to download the [benchmark_cam](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ktSDTUx9dDViBKoAeqTERTay1813xfUK/view?usp=sharing) consisting of camera intrinsic parameters of the benchmark test set.

## **NYU**

Following previous work, I utilize about 50K image-depth pairs as our training set and standard 652 images as the validation set. You can download the subset with the help of codes provided in [BTS](https://github.com/AdorableJiang/bts).

```bash
git clone https://github.com/AdorableJiang/bts.git
cd bts
python utils/download_from_gdrive.py 1AysroWpfISmm-yRFGBgFTrLy6FjQwvwP sync.zip
unzip sync.zip
```

Also, you can download it from following link: <https://drive.google.com/file/d/1AysroWpfISmm-yRFGBgFTrLy6FjQwvwP/view?usp=sharing>

Then, extract standard test set. Download the original [Labeled dataset (~2.8 GB)](http://horatio.cs.nyu.edu/mit/silberman/nyu_depth_v2/nyu_depth_v2_labeled.mat) from [NYU Depth V2 Nathan Silberman](https://cs.nyu.edu/~silberman/datasets/nyu_depth_v2.html).

```bash
cd utils # bts/utils
python extract_official_train_test_set_from_mat.py /path/to/nyu_depth_v2_labeled.mat splits.mat <out_folder>

# Finally, move everything under <out_folder>/test to unzipped training set
cp -r <out_folder>/test/* /path/to/unzipped/training/set/
```

Finally, copy nyu_train.txt and nyu_test.txt from `splits/` folder to `/path/to/unzipped/training/set/`. There should be 302 items (300 folders + 2 `.txt` files) under the complete training+test sets.

```bash
$ ls /path/to/complete/nyudataset/ | wc -l
302
```

## **SUNRGBD**

The dataset could be downloaded from this [link](https://rgbd.cs.princeton.edu/). Copy SUNRGBD_val_splits.txt in splits into data/SUNRGBD.

## **Cityscapes and CityscapesExtra**

The data could be found [here](https://www.cityscapes-dataset.com/downloads/) after registration. Copy cityscapes_train.txt and cityscapes_train in splits to data/cityscapes. If using extra data, copy cityscapes_train_extra.txt to data/cityscapesExtra.

## **Custom Dataset**

We also provide a simple custom dataset class for users in `depth/datasets/custom.py`. Organize your data folder as our illustration. Note that instead of utilizing a split file to divide the train/val set, we directly classify data into train/val folder. A simple config file can be like:

```python
train=dict(
    type=dataset_type,
    pipeline=dict(...),
    data_root='data/custom_dataset',
    test_mode=False,
    min_depth=1e-3,
    max_depth=10,
    depth_scale=1)
```

As for the custom dataset, we do not implement the evaluation details. If you want to get a quantitative metric result, you need to implement the `pre_eval` and `evaluate` functions following the ones in KITTI or other datasets.
